Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors. & Anr. ‘Adani Power Rajas
Aniruddha Bose* and Sanjay Kumar, JJ. 8625 – 8626 of 2019 – 2024. 18 March 2024. The Supreme Court does not retain jurisdiction to entertain any application.
There are two Orders in the Supreme Court Rules, 2013. The former Order, contained in 1024  [2024] 3 S.C.R. Part IV of the 2013 Rules, relates to “Review of a Judgment’ and “Curative Petition’ – There is no other provision whereby a litigant can apply for modification of a judgment.
The Rajasthan Discoms have applied to the Supreme Court for directions on the payment of Rs.1376.35 crores. The application was projected as an application for clarification, though the same was registered as a miscellaneous application.
The applicant had expressed its desire to withdraw the present  application on the last date of hearing, i.e., 24.01.2024. The Supreme Court, however, decided not to permit such simpliciter  withdrawal. Even if an applicant applies for withdrawal, in exceptional cases, it would be within the jurisdiction of
The Supreme Court becomes functus officio and does not retain  jurisdiction to entertain an application after the appeal was disposed. This is not an application for correcting any clerical or  arithmetical error – Neither it is an application to extension of [2024] 3 S.C.R
A miscellaneous application had been filed for modification of the content of judgment dated 1st September 2020 passed  in Civil Appeal Nos. 9887 of 2020 in M.A. (D) No. (C) 9887. The application could not be explained by invoking the inherent power of the Supreme Court.
 clarification was also sought  on the aspect that the judgment did not bar the Union of India from considering and rectifying the clerical/arithmet
The power to extend time beyond that fixed by a Court on a legitimate ground is incorporated in Section 148 of the CPC. The Supreme Court dismissed the present application and  imposed costs of Rs. 20,000.
Ghanashyam Mishra & Sons Private Limited v. Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company Limited, relied on. M. A. No. 1166 of 2021 in CA  No. 8129 of 2019. Relied on. 50,000/- to be paid by the applicant to be sent to the Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee as it was listed several times.
The Supreme Court of India has heard a number of appeals against the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission and the Union of India in recent years. Some of the cases have been referred to by the Supreme Court as the "NCT of Delhi and Another"
Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Miscellaneous Application Diary. No.21994 of 2022. Civil Appeal Nos.8625-8626 of 2019. Supreme Court Rules, 2013.
The applicant, Adani Power Rajasthan Limited (APRL), is a generating  company as per Section 2(28) of the Electricity Act, 2003 (“2003  Act”). It operates a thermal power plant in the State of Rajaasthan. The three appellants (1 to 3) in the main set of appeals,
The applicant seeks a direction  upon the Rajasthan Discoms for making payment of Rs.1376.35 crore towards Late Payment Surcharge (“LPS”) This claim has been  raised by the applicant citing Article 8.3.5 of the Power Purchase Agreement dated 28.01.2010 (
The PPA-2010 postulated domestic coal as the primary source of energy. The applicant’s complaint was that, due to non-availability of sufficient domestic coal, it could not be allocated a domestic coal  linkage by the Government of India.
RERC held that the applicant would be entitled to relief on account of change in law. This was recorded in an order passed on 25.02.2022 by a Coordinate Bench of this Court. The applicant had also raised another claim for additional payment  before the RERC.
Rajasthan Discoms appealed against the order of the RERC before the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity. The three-Judge Bench of this Court dismissed the appeals with the following observations and directions.
RERC and APTEL have given concurrent findings in favour of the respondent with regard to change  in law, with which we also concur. We may now deal with the question of liability of appellants-Rajasthan Discoms with regard to late payment surcharge. In this regard, the 1030  [2024] 3 S.C.R
Either Party may raise a bill on the other Party for payment on account of: (i) Adjustments required by the Regional Energy Account (if applicable):  (ii) Tariff Payment for change in parameters, pursuant to provisions in Schedule 4; or (iii) Change in Law)
8.3.3 In the event of delay in payment of a  Supplementary Bill by either Party beyond its Due [2024] 3 S.C.R.  1031, a Late Payment Surcharge shall be payable. 8.5.9 The copies of all; notices/offers which are required  to be sent as per the provisions of this Article 8, shall 
The plea of change in law was  initially raised by APRL in the year 2013. A case was also  filed by AP RL in theyear 2013 itself raising its claim on  such basis. However, the appellants-Rajasthan Discoms  did not allow the claim regardingchange in law.
The rate of interest would be at SBAR, not exceeding 9 per cent per annum, to be compounded annually, and the  2 per cent above the SBAR (as provided in Article 8.3.5  of PPA) would not be charged in the present case. It is also provided that instead of monthly rest, the interest would  be compounded per year.
The applicant had filed contempt proceedings alleging disobedience of the said judgment and order, which were registered as Contempt (C) Nos. 877-878 of 2021. In the contempt proceeding, the applicant’s position was reflected in the submissions of its learned senior counsel.
Shri Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner has submitted that the only dispute which was to be resolved by RERC, APTEL and  this Court was with regard to the payment due because of “change in law’ The ‘change in Law’ ground was held to be the actual landed 
RERC, APTEL and this  court are liable for contempt if they have not paid the amount they were supposed to have paid. The claim of the respondents that they had paid certain amount towards energy charges regularly month by month, which included a certain amount of price of alternate coal/imported coal, cannot be accepted
Petitioner claimed he was entitled to the benefit of ‘change in law’ But the respondents had not accepted the claim, the court ruled.
The petitioner has claimed an amount of Rs. 75 crores up to March, 2021. The said principle having been affirmed by the APTEL and this Court, cannot be reopened now. The petitioner has been paid a sum of £2426.81 crores.
The interest at a rate of 9% per annum is to be applied on the said amount. The further claim of late payment surcharge, amounting to Rs.2477.70 crores, would be a subject matter which the petitioner can claim before the appropriate forum.
The contempt petitions were directed to be closed by another Coordinate Bench of this Court and order to that effect was passed on 19.04.2022. In this order, inter-alia, observed:-[2024] 3 S.C.R.  1035 Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors. v. Adani Power Rajasthan Ltd
The late payment surcharge would be a subject matter which the petitioner, if so advised, can claim before the appropriate forum, as the same is not the subject in question in the present proceedings.
There is neither. any material before us with regard to that nor the same was. in question when the contempt petitions were filed. As such neither we are inclined to grant any such relief nor stop them from raising any such issue, if the respondents are so advised.
The application was filed on 19.07.2022. It was projected as an application for clarification, though the same was registered as a miscellaneous application. The issue of LPS has been dealt with by the three-Judge Bench in the said passage.
10. Order XII Rule 3 of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013 (“2013 Rules”) is framed in pursuance of Article 145 of the Constitution of India. The reliefs asked for in this application do not refer to  purposefullyany clarification.
There is no other provision in the 2013 Rules, whereby a litigant can apply for modification of a judgment or an order of this court. The applicant did not apply for review of the judgment delivered by the three-Judge Bench. Neither in the contempt action initiated by the applicant, did the Court find that any case of willful disobedience of the judgement was made out.
Ghanashyam Mishra & Sons Private Limited -vs-Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company Limited [M.A. No. 1166  of 2021 in CA No. 8129 of 2019], a two-Judge Bench of this Court observed and held.
In the case of Supertech.Limited-vs- Emerald Court Owner Resident Welfare Association. (2023) 10 SCC 817, a two-Judge Bench of this Court. examined the maintainability of miscellaneous applications “for clarification, modification or recall” and was pleased to observe the Court
Mr Mukul Rohatgi, learned 1038  [2024] 3 S.C.R. Senior Counsel has relied upon the provisions of Order LV Rule 6 of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013.
The authorities which were cited in the said Judgment by the  purposefullyCoordinate Bench are the cases of State (UT of Delhi) -vs- Gurdip Singh Uban and Others. The miscellaneous application is an  abuse of the process.
The applicant failed to establish any willful disobedience of the main judgment and order on account of non-payment of LPS. Now the applicant cannot continue to hitchhike on the same judgment by relying on the inherent power or jurisdiction of this Court.
Dr. Singhvi relied on five orders of this Court in which post-disposal applications were entertained. The first one was an order dated 29.10.2018 in the case of Energy Watchdog -vs- Central Electricity Regulatory Commission.
The next order, on which Dr. Singhvi placed reliance, was passed  on 04.05.2023 in the case of Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Ltd. and Adani Power (Mundra) Limited. The subsequent event was taken into account for modifying the order but there was no substantive
The third order relied on by Dr. Singhvi was passed on 09.12.2022 in the case of Kalpataru Properties Pvt. Ltd. -vs- Indiabulls Housing  Finance Ltd. The applicant therein had approached this Court contending that he  was not heard when the civil appeal was decided. But this order
The applicant was an intervenor before the NCLAT. His case was that he should have been  given the liberty to be heard as an intervener. Aordinate Bench of this Court entertained that application.
A number of entities seems to have jumped into the  picture as the matter has gone on before the Court. We make it clear that only the parties/existing interventionist  before the NCLAT will have the right of hearing.
The fourth order on which the present applicant relied was passed  on 12.08.2022 in the case of Supertech Limited -vs- Emerald [2024] 3 S.C.R.  1041. The power to extend time beyond that fixed by a Court on a legitimate ground is incorporated in Section 148 of the Code.
The fifth order referred to by the applicant was passed on 23.07.2021. The application had been filed for modification of the content of judgment dated 1st September 2020.
Dr. Singhvi had expressed his desire to withdraw the present application on the last date of hearing, i.e., 24.01.2024. We, however, decided not to permit such simpliciter, as the Rajasthan Discoms sought imposition of costs.
An important question has arisen as regards jurisdiction of the Court to entertain an application taken out in connection with a set of statutory appeals. The provision which pertains to a suit would not ipso facto apply to a miscellaneous application invoking inherent powers of this Court. Even if an applicant applies for withdrawal, in exceptional cases, it would be
This Court has become functus officio and does not retain jurisdiction to entertain an application after the appeal was disposed of by the judgment of a three-Judge Bench of this Court. This is not an application for correcting any clerical or arithmetical error. Neither it is an application to extend time.
The applicant did not file any petition for review. The Rajasthan Discoms that had filed the review petitions which stood dismissed. We have examined the issue in greater detail. The factual background of this Application does not ishlyfit into that description.
The question concerning payment of LPS was raised, but the Bench of this Court found that the same was not the subject of question in the contempt proceedings. A relief of this nature cannot be asked for in a miscellaneous application.
The observations made in the order passed on 14.12.2022 were made only at the prima facie stage and do not have binding effect at the hearing stage. The question whether such a prayer could be made  in an application labeled as a “Miscellaneous Application’ does not appear to have been considered by this Court at the time of making the order dated 14. 12.
 application dismissed. 50,000/- to be paid by the applicant to be remitted to the Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee. Application dismissed